feat: add jira promo step doc (#4497)
akuity/kargo: docs/docs/50-user-guide/60-reference-docs/30-promotion-steps/jira.md

---

> sidebar_label: jira

Reviewer: Is there an icon we can use to indicate this as an enterprise feature?

Reviewer: Good suggestion, though I would just say `Enterprise` and not `Enterprise Only`.

Reviewer 2: We probably need a "beta" label as well.

Reviewer 3: <img width="741" alt="Screenshot 2025-07-02 at 12 55 17 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ca6e41c1-ef0f-406e-8c9b-e20f2c177d6d" />

description: Integrates with Jira to manage issues, comments, and track promotion workflows.
---

# `jira`

:::info Enterprise Feature
This promotion step is only available in Akuity Promote, you can use this feature in Kargo v1.6+ offered on [Akuity Platform](https://akuity.io/akuity-platform).

> :::

Reviewer 2: @kencochrane this is a spot we were talking about offline where we need to nail down wording to be more clear.

> The `jira` extension provides comprehensive integration with Jira, allowing you to create, update, delete, and search for issues, manage comments, and track promotion workflows. This extension is particularly useful for maintaining traceability between your deployment processes and project management activities.

Reviewer 2: With tables and long URLs being notable exceptions, we try to observe a (soft) limit of 80 chars per line. It may seem silly, but it works out a lot better when reviewing PRs from a mobile device or viewing many docs or pieces of code side-by-side on a larger screen.

Reviewer 2: Another matter of terminology, I think we could afford to be less generic than "extension" and say "This _promotion step_..."

imho, this is more straightforward for the reader.

Applies in a few other spots throughout this doc.

This promotion step supports various operations including issue management, comment handling, and status tracking, making it a powerful tool for promotion workflows that require coordination with project management systems.

## Credentials Configuration

All Jira operations require proper authentication credentials stored in a Kubernetes `Secret`.

| Name                     | Type     | Required | Description                                                                                                                  |
| ------------------------ | -------- | -------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `credentials.secretName` | `string` | Y        | Name of the `Secret` containing the Jira credentials.                                                                        |

> | `credentials.namespace`  | `string` | N        | Namespace for the credentials `Secret`. Can be project or cluster secret namespace. If empty, the project namespace is used. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `credentials.namespace`  | `string` | N        | Namespace containing the credentials `Secret`. This can be the Project's namespace or the designated cluster secrets namespace. If empty, the Project namespace is assumed. |
```

Reviewer 2: I can't remember where we landed on it, but if the cluster secrets namespace isn't configurable in Akuity Promote and this feature is exclusive to Akuity Promote, should we say here what the name of the the cluster secrets namespace actually is?

Reviewer 2: Actually... another concern popped into my head. Other features using the "cluster secrets namespace" use that namespace as a repository for Secrets referenced by, as the name implies, _cluster-scoped things._

The way it's being used here seems to be quite a departure from that. It seems this is being used in a way that is more consistent with what "global credential namespaces" had been intended for -- i.e. sharing across Projects.

As it stands now, it seems referencing cluster-scoped secrets from a Project-scoped resource creates a possible vulnerability by allowing any Project to access Secrets belonging to the "Kargo admin" (my shorthand for whoever maintains cluster-scoped Kargo resources).

Reviewer 2: Marking this as resolved and we can move the convo to [here](https://github.com/akuity/kargo/pull/4497#discussion_r2181199754).

The referenced secret should contain the following keys:

- `domain`: The domain of your Jira instance or Jira api (e.g., `https://yourcompany.atlassian.net`)
- `username`: Your Jira username or email
- `password`: Your Jira API token or password

:::info Content Formatting

> When using `description` or `body` fields, use plain text as Jira does not render markdown. For rich formatting, use the ADF (Atlassian Document Format) alternatives `adfDescription` or `adfBody` instead.

Reviewer 2: Up to this point in the doc neither `description` nor `body` fields have been mentioned. I'm actually confused, so readers will be also.

Re: ADF, is there any external resource we can link to that covers it?

| `createIssue.summary`        | `string` | Y        | The summary or title of the issue.                                                                          |
| `createIssue.description`    | `string` | N        | The description of the issue. Supports markdown formatting.                                                 |
| `createIssue.adfDescription` | `object` | N        | ADF (Atlassian Document Format) content for complex formatting. Alternative to `description`.               |
| `createIssue.issueType`      | `string` | N        | The type of issue to create (e.g., 'Bug', 'Task', 'Story').                                                 |
| `createIssue.assigneeEmail`  | `string` | N        | Email of the user to assign the issue to.                                                                   |
| `createIssue.labels`         | `array`  | N        | Labels to add to the issue for categorization.                                                              |
| `createIssue.customFields`   | `object` | N        | Custom fields to set. Keys should match Jira custom field IDs.                                              |

> | `createIssue.issueAlias`     | `string` | N        | Override for the freight metadata key used to reference the created issue id. Defaults to `jira-issue-key`. |

Reviewer 2: Gotcha. I agree completely that if Jira calls it an "issue key" then aligning with that terminology makes complete sense. We did something similar in webhook receivers where there is something called "secret-key" it's _not_ the key in the map. It's what the external platform _calls_ the shared key used for symmetric encryption.

💯

#### Output

| Name  | Type     | Description                                           |
| ----- | -------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| `key` | `string` | The key/id of the created Jira issue (e.g., EXT-123). |

#### Example

This example creates a new Jira issue to track a deployment, assigns it to a team member, and adds relevant labels.

```yaml
steps:
  - uses: jira
    as: create-deployment-issue
    config:
      credentials:
        secretName: jira-credentials
      createIssue:
        projectKey: DEPLOY
        summary: "Deploy ${{ imageFrom(vars.imageRepo).Tag }} to ${{ ctx.stage.name }}"
        description: "Deploying ${{ imageFrom(vars.imageRepo).RepoURL }}:${{ imageFrom(vars.imageRepo).Tag }} to ${{ ctx.stage.name }} environment. Promotion ID: ${{ ctx.promotion.name }}. Freight: ${{ ctx.targetFreight.name }}."
        issueType: Task
        assigneeEmail: devops@company.com

>         labels:
>           - deployment
>           - "${{ ctx.stage.name }}"
>           - "release-${{ imageFrom(vars.imageRepo).Tag }}"

Reviewer 2: In code and docs, Kargo has tried to standardize on this convention WRT to YAML lists:

```suggestion
        labels:
        - deployment
        - "${{ ctx.stage.name }}"
        - "release-${{ imageFrom(vars.imageRepo).Tag }}"
```

Reviewer 2: May apply in other spots.

This example updates an existing issue's status and adds a comment with deployment details.

```yaml
steps:
  - uses: jira
    config:
      credentials:
        secretName: jira-credentials
      updateIssue:
        issueKey: DEPLOY-123
        status: "IN PROGRESS"
        summary: "Deploy ${{ imageFrom(vars.imageRepo).Tag }} to ${{ ctx.stage.name }} - IN PROGRESS"
        addLabels:
          - deploying
          - "${{ ctx.stage.name }}-deployment"
        customFields:
          customfield_10000: "${{ ctx.stage.name }} Environment"
          customfield_10001: "${{ ctx.promotion.name }}"
```

### Delete Issue

Deletes a Jira issue and optionally its subtasks.

#### Configuration

| Name                         | Type      | Required | Description                                    |
| ---------------------------- | --------- | -------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| `deleteIssue.issueKey`       | `string`  | Y        | The Jira Issue Key (e.g., EXT-123).            |
| `deleteIssue.deleteSubtasks` | `boolean` | N        | If true, all subtasks will be deleted as well. |

#### Output

This step does not produce any output values.

#### Example

> This example deletes a Jira issue and all its subtasks when a deployment is rolled back.

Reviewer 2: Making this example closer to what you do with this step in the larger/comprehensive example would clear things up a lot.

```yaml
steps:
  - uses: jira
    config:
      credentials:
        secretName: jira-credentials
      deleteIssue:
        issueKey: "${{ freightMetadata(ctx.targetFreight.name, 'jira-issue-key') }}"
        deleteSubtasks: true
```

### Search Issues

> Searches for Jira issues using JQL (Jira Query Language).

Reviewer 2: Probably worth a link to JQL docs?

#### Configuration

| Name                         | Type      | Required | Description                                                                                   |
| ---------------------------- | --------- | -------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `searchIssue.jql`            | `string`  | Y        | The JQL query to search for issues.                                                           |
| `searchIssue.expectMultiple` | `boolean` | N        | If true, expects multiple results. If false, expects single result and fails with >1 results. |
| `searchIssue.fields`         | `array`   | N        | List of fields to include in search results.                                                  |
| `searchIssue.expands`        | `array`   | N        | List of fields to expand in search results.                                                   |

#### Output

| Name    | Type     | Description                                                                 |
| ------- | -------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | `issue` | `object` | The found Jira issue object containing all requested fields and expansions. |

Reviewer 2: It's not clear from this description what happens if `expectMultiple` was `true` and multiples were found. It leaves me guessing.

Reviewer 2: Much clearer now!

```yaml
steps:
  - uses: jira
    config:
      credentials:
        secretName: jira-credentials
      waitForStatus:
        issueKey: "${{ freightMetadata(ctx.targetFreight.name, 'change-request-key') }}"
        expectedStatus: "Approved"
  # Deployment steps continue after approval...
  - uses: helm-template
    config:
      path: ./charts
      vars:
        imageTag: "${{ imageFrom(vars.imageRepo).Tag }}"
        environment: "${{ ctx.stage.name }}"
```

## Freight Metadata Integration

The Jira extension automatically stores created issue keys in the Freight metadata, allowing subsequent stages to reference the same issue. This enables tracking a single Jira issue across multiple promotion stages.

### Accessing Issue Keys from Freight Metadata

Use the `freightMetadata` template function to retrieve issue keys stored by previous stages:

```yaml
# Access the default issue key
issueKey: ${{ freightMetadata(ctx.targetFreight.name, 'jira-issue-key') }}

# Access a custom issue key (when issueAlias was used during creation)
issueKey: ${{ freightMetadata(ctx.targetFreight.name, 'my-custom-alias') }}
```

> ## Multi-Stage Workflow Example

Reviewer 2: I like this wording of "Multi-Stage Workflow" and want to suggest rewording "Freight Metadata Integration" as "Multi-Stage Workflow" and nesting this example within that section.

My rationale is that working with one issue across multiple Stages/Promotions is going to be the thing users care about and potentially go looking for information on. The metadata is just an implementation detail. imho, focusing on the use case instead of the implementation will make it easier for readers to find relevant info faster.

> This comprehensive example demonstrates how to use the Jira promotion step across multiple stages in a promotion pipeline, tracking a single issue from creation through production deployment:

Reviewer 2: I really like this example because it ties everything else together nicely. I still think the example would be improved by avoiding "deployment" language. A deployment is rather low level and env-specific, while the issue that's created here and updated throughout the course of many promotions is much bigger picture, tracking the progression of artifacts through several envs. i.e. I favor changing some language, but structurally, I think the example is great!

```yaml
---
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: Stage
metadata:
  name: test
  namespace: kargo-proj
spec:
  requestedFreight:
    - origin:
        kind: Warehouse
        name: nginx
      sources:
        direct: true
  promotionTemplate:
    spec:
      vars:
        - name: imageRepo
          value: public.ecr.aws/nginx/nginx
      steps:
        # Create initial deployment ticket

>         - as: create-deployment-ticket

Reviewer 2: I'm wondering what happens if/when Freight is _re_-promoted to this Stage. We get a branch new issue and the ID of that new issue replaces the ID of the old issue in the metadata?

I think there are all kinds of weird things that might happen.

1. Promote to test: New issue
1. Promote to stage: Update issue
1. Promote _something else_ to test and decide you don't like it
1. Promote test back to the older Freight: New issue? Do we now, essentially lose track of all the successful promotions that already happened downstream from test?

Reviewer 2: Looking at the implementation, I think perhaps we ought to make "create issue" fall back on adding a comment to the existing issue instead if the Freight's metadata already has an issue under the key... but this would change how we might wish to deal with failures in promotions to test. Instead of cleaning up by _deleting_ the issue, we could clean up by adding a comment. Other stages that update the issue with a comment, likewise, could clean up by adding an additional comment (instead of one they already created)...

i.e. If we start to look at a single Jira ticket as a write-only ledger of activity recorded in the comments, non-linear flows will become a bit easier.

Reviewer 2: > Not sure how to exactly frame this w.r.t to kargo for us but I would prefer to not include any custom handling in the low level step action itself and let user figure out a way they prefer to deal with this.

Ya... I agree with us not getting overly opinionated about how to deal with this sort of thing. Let users decide. At the same time, I think we should _also_ avoid requiring too much boilerplate from users that must be _just so_ in order to escape the unconditional new ticket footgun.

But if we're calling the feature beta, I think we'll learn more about realistic usage patterns by using it and by observing what kind of things other users end up doing with it that we may not even have imagined.

I think we could let this go for now.

                        marks:
                          - type: code
                  - type: paragraph
                    content:
                      - type: text
                        text: "Project:"
                        marks:
                          - type: strong
                      - type: text
                        text: " "
                      - type: text
                        text: "${{ ctx.project }}"
                        marks:
                          - type: code
              labels:
                - "automated-deployment"
                - "env-${{ ctx.stage.name }}"
                - "release-${{ imageFrom(vars.imageRepo).Tag }}"
                - "project-${{ ctx.project }}"

        # Update application
        - as: update-app
          uses: argocd-update
          config:
            apps:
              - name: test-app
                namespace: argocd
                sources:
                  - repoURL: https://github.com/company/app-config.git
                    kustomize:
                      images:
                        - repoURL: public.ecr.aws/nginx/nginx

>                           tag: ${{ imageFrom("public.ecr.aws/nginx/nginx").Tag }}

Reviewer 2: This is [pseudo GitOps](https://docs.kargo.io/user-guide/patterns/#pseudo-gitops). I know it's an easy/accessible example, but if we're responsible about it, it probably needs some kind of disclaimer. It might be better to stick a `# ...` comment here to make it clear that other steps that weren't really relevant to the example were omitted.

May apply in other spots as well.

        # Add progress comment
        - as: comment-on-ticket
          uses: jira
          config:
            credentials:
              secretName: jira
            commentOnIssue:
              issueKey: ${{ outputs['create-deployment-ticket'].key }}
              body: "Release ${{ imageFrom(vars.imageRepo).Tag }} has been promoted to ${{ ctx.stage.name }} environment at ${{ ctx.promotion.creationTimestamp }}. Freight: ${{ ctx.targetFreight.name }}. Ready for testing."

        # Cleanup on failure
        - as: on-failure-cleanup-issue
          uses: jira
          if: ${{ failure() }}
          config:
            credentials:
              secretName: jira
            deleteIssue:
              issueKey: ${{ outputs['create-deployment-ticket'].key }}

>               deleteSubtasks: true

Reviewer 2: Seeing it in this context, I think updating the [standalone example I commented on](https://github.com/akuity/kargo/pull/4497/files#r2178488575) to more closely resemble this might resolve that comment.

Reviewer 2: Although I wonder if this is a realistic pattern...

Assuming many users will emulate what they see here, is deleting the Jira issue really a good way to respond to a promotion failure?

I see other Stages' promotion processes have similar cleanup steps. Do we really want to have an issue tracking successful promotion through several Stages and then throw all that information away because of a hiccup farther downstream?

Reviewer 2: Nvm... I see now that subsequent Stages are cleaning up a _comment_ on failure.

---
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: Stage
metadata:
  name: stage
  namespace: kargo-proj
spec:
  requestedFreight:
    - origin:
        kind: Warehouse
        name: nginx
      sources:
        stages:
          - test
  promotionTemplate:
    spec:
      vars:
        - name: imageRepo
          value: public.ecr.aws/nginx/nginx
      steps:
        # Wait for manual approval to proceed to staging
        - as: wait-approval
          uses: jira
          config:
            credentials:
              secretName: jira
            waitForStatus:
              issueKey: ${{ freightMetadata(ctx.targetFreight.name, 'jira-issue-key') }}

>               expectedStatus: STAGED

Reviewer 2: The workflow is odd. We wait for a STAGED status in order to promote _into_ staging? That feels backwards. Same is true for prod further down. We wait for a RELEASED status before promoting into prod. These statuses sound very much like the thing that's being done has _already_ been done. I assume all these statuses are arbitrary or semi-arbitrary? (I haven't used Jira in a long time.) Can we just use different statuses to add clarity? Something like APPROVED_FOR_STAGING?

:::

The `jira` promotion step provides comprehensive integration with Jira, allowing you to create, update, delete, and search for issues, manage comments, and track promotion workflows. This is particularly useful for maintaining traceability between your promotion processes and project management activities.

This promotion step supports various operations including issue management, comment handling, and status tracking, making it a powerful tool for promotion workflows that require coordination with project management systems.

## Credentials Configuration

All Jira operations require proper authentication credentials stored in a Kubernetes `Secret`.

| Name                     | Type     | Required | Description                                                                                                                  |
| ------------------------ | -------- | -------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `credentials.secretName` | `string` | Y        | Name of the `Secret` containing the Jira credentials.                                                                        |

> | `credentials.namespace`  | `string` | N        | Namespace containing the credentials `Secret`. This can be the Project's namespace, the cluster secrets namespace (`kargo-cluster-secrets`) or any of the configured global credential namespaces. If empty, the Project's namespace is assumed.|

Reviewer 2: In an offline conversation with @jessesuen, he suggested simply not documenting this field for now. Without doing so, no one will be aware of it (unless they're following along right now 🤣). Since it default's to the Project's namespace, it's fine for people to omit it. This would buy us some time to nail down possible implementation changes in an upcoming release, essentially without breakage.

The referenced `Secret` should contain the following keys:

- `domain`: The domain of your Jira instance or Jira api (e.g., `https://yourcompany.atlassian.net`)
- `username`: Your Jira username or email
- `password`: Your Jira API token or password

> ## Issue Management

Reviewer 2: More of a question than a comment. Does Jira use the terms "issue" and "ticket" completely interchangeably? It seems we're using "issue" in some places, but "ticket" in others (mostly in examples).

| `updateIssue.summary`        | `string` | N        | Updated summary or title of the issue.                            |
| `updateIssue.description`    | `string` | N        | Updated description. Supports markdown formatting.                |
| `updateIssue.adfDescription` | `object` | N        | ADF content for complex formatting. Alternative to `description`. |
| `updateIssue.issueType`      | `string` | N        | Updated issue type.                                               |
| `updateIssue.assigneeEmail`  | `string` | N        | Email of the user to assign the issue to.                         |
| `updateIssue.status`         | `string` | N        | Status to set for the issue (e.g., 'IN PROGRESS', 'DONE').        |
| `updateIssue.addLabels`      | `array`  | N        | Labels to add to the issue.                                       |
| `updateIssue.removeLabels`   | `array`  | N        | Labels to remove from the issue.                                  |
| `updateIssue.customFields`   | `object` | N        | Custom fields to update.                                          |

#### Output

> This step does not produce any output values.

Reviewer 2: "Output values" sounds redundant, although it's not a hill I would die on. Take it or leave it. Applies in other places as well.

```suggestion
This step does not produce any output.
```

#### Example

This example updates an existing issue's status and adds a comment with promotion details.

```yaml
steps:
- uses: jira
  config:
    credentials:
      secretName: jira-credentials
    updateIssue:

>       issueKey: DEPLOY-123
>       status: "IN PROGRESS"
>       summary: "Deploy ${{ imageFrom(vars.imageRepo).Tag }} to ${{ ctx.stage }} - IN PROGRESS"
>       addLabels:
>       - deploying

Reviewer 2: Feel free to tweak further:

```suggestion
      issueKey: GUESTBOOK-123
      status: "IN PROGRESS"
      summary: "Promote ${{ imageFrom(vars.imageRepo).Tag }} to ${{ ctx.stage }} - IN PROGRESS"
      addLabels:
      - in-progress
```

      - "${{ ctx.stage }}-promotion"
      customFields:
        customfield_10000: "${{ ctx.stage }} Environment"
        customfield_10001: "${{ ctx.promotion }}"
```

### Delete Issue

> Deletes a Jira issue and optionally its subtasks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Deletes a Jira issue and, optionally, its subtasks.
```

#### Output

This step does not produce any output values.

#### Example

This example deletes a Jira issue and all its subtasks when a promotion fails.

```yaml
steps:
# existing steps create issue and other promotion steps
# ....
# ....
# on failure cleanup logic
- as: on-failure-cleanup-issue
  uses: jira
  if: ${{ failure() }}
  config:
    credentials:
      secretName: jira-credentials
    deleteIssue:
      issueKey: "${{ freightMetadata(ctx.targetFreight.name, 'jira-issue-key') }}"
      deleteSubtasks: true
```

### Search Issues

Searches for Jira issues using JQL ([Jira Query Language](https://support.atlassian.com/jira-service-management-cloud/docs/use-advanced-search-with-jira-query-language-jql/)).

#### Configuration

| Name                         | Type      | Required | Description                                                                                   |
| ---------------------------- | --------- | -------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `searchIssue.jql`            | `string`  | Y        | The JQL query to search for issues.                                                           |

> | `searchIssue.expectMultiple` | `boolean` | N        | If true, expects multiple results and returns the first matching result. If false, expects single result and fails with >1 results. |

Reviewer 2: Just a note that this is why I've _completely_ given up on trying to make tables look pretty in the source. Change one entry and nothing lines up anymore. 🤷‍♂️ 

No action needed.

| `searchIssue.fields`         | `array`   | N        | List of fields to include in search results.                                                  |
| `searchIssue.expands`        | `array`   | N        | List of fields to expand in search results.                                                   |

#### Output

| Name    | Type     | Description                                                                 |
| ------- | -------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `issue` | `object` | The found Jira issue object containing all requested fields and expansions. |

#### Example

This example searches for open promotion issues in a specific project and expects multiple results.

```yaml
steps:
- uses: jira
  as: find-open-promotions
  config:
    credentials:
      secretName: jira-credentials
    searchIssue:

>       jql: 'project = DEPLOY AND status != "Done" AND labels = "${{ ctx.stage }}-promotion" AND created >= -7d'

Reviewer 2: Feel free to change for consistency with other suggestions if you tweak them as well.

```suggestion
      jql: 'project = GUESTBOOK AND status != "Done" AND labels = "${{ ctx.stage }}-promotion" AND created >= -7d'
```

      secretName: jira-credentials
    deleteComment:
      issueKey: "${{ freightMetadata(ctx.targetFreight.name, 'jira-issue-key') }}"
      commentID: "${{ outputs['previous-comment-step'].commentID }}"
```

## Status Tracking

### Wait for Status

Waits for a Jira issue to reach a specific status before proceeding.

#### Configuration

| Name                           | Type     | Required | Description                                                    |
| ------------------------------ | -------- | -------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `waitForStatus.issueKey`       | `string` | Y        | The Jira Issue Key (e.g., EXT-123).                            |
| `waitForStatus.expectedStatus` | `string` | Y        | The expected status to wait for (e.g., 'IN PROGRESS', 'DONE'). |

#### Output

This step does not produce any output values.

#### Example

This example waits for a change request issue to be approved before proceeding with promotion.

```yaml
steps:
- uses: jira
  config:
    credentials:
      secretName: jira-credentials
    waitForStatus:
      issueKey: "${{ freightMetadata(ctx.targetFreight.name, 'change-request-key') }}"

>       expectedStatus: "Approved"

Reviewer 2: Are Jira statuses all caps?

:::

## Multi-Stage Workflow

The Jira promotion step automatically stores created issue keys in the Freight metadata, allowing subsequent stages to reference the same issue. This enables tracking a single Jira issue across multiple promotion stages.

### Accessing Issue Keys from Freight Metadata

Use the `freightMetadata()` template function to retrieve issue keys stored by previous stages:

```yaml
# Access the default issue key
issueKey: ${{ freightMetadata(ctx.targetFreight.name, 'jira-issue-key') }}

# Access a custom issue key (when issueAlias was used during creation)
issueKey: ${{ freightMetadata(ctx.targetFreight.name, 'my-custom-alias') }}
```

### Example

This comprehensive example demonstrates using the Jira promotion step across multiple stages in a promotion pipeline, tracking a single issue from its creation during testing through its final promotion to production:

```yaml
---
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: Stage
metadata:
  name: test
  namespace: kargo-proj
spec:
  requestedFreight:
  - origin:
      kind: Warehouse

>       name: nginx

Reviewer 2: I suggested the project name `GUESTBOOK` in a few places, so I wonder if we should make the Warehouse name and the image repo it subscribes to match.

It _feels_ slightly better imho because the idea of moving the latest revision of homegrown software through a pipeline probably resonates with most readers more readily than the idea of moving a piece of infra through a pipeline (even though that's a perfectly valid thing to do).

I intend to update the quickstart similarly for the same reason.

Just a thought. Up to you if you think this is worth it or not.

```suggestion
      name: nginx
```

    sources:
      direct: true
  promotionTemplate:
    spec:
      vars:
      - name: imageRepo
        value: public.ecr.aws/nginx/nginx
      steps:
      # Create initial promotion ticket
      - as: create-promotion-ticket
        uses: jira
        config:
          credentials:
            secretName: jira
          createIssue:

>             projectKey: KD

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            projectKey: GUESTBOOK
```

Reviewer 2: > seemed very specific.

Specific had been my intent, but I am inferring now that perhaps we were viewing the hypothetical project from different angles.

I saw the project as being app-specific and oriented around all things having to do with that app. This could include features, support tickets, etc., and tracking promotions through the stages of the app's pipeline is just one type of issue tracked in that project.

But perhaps you see the `PROMOTE` project as not being app-specific, rather a project dedicated to tracking promotions through the stages of many/all apps' pipelines.

If I'm correctly understanding how you saw this, then 👍. I think both approaches are probably valid and it's a preference or organizational choice that might reflect other choices such as using or not use monorepos, central/siloed devops org, etc., etc.

I think we're all good.

                - type: text
                  text: "${{ imageFrom(vars.imageRepo).Tag }}"
                  marks:
                  - type: code
              - type: paragraph
                content:
                - type: text
                  text: "Image:"
                  marks:
                  - type: strong
                - type: text
                  text: " "
                - type: text
                  text: "${{ imageFrom(vars.imageRepo).RepoURL }}:${{ imageFrom(vars.imageRepo).Tag }}"
                  marks:
                  - type: code
              - type: paragraph
                content:
                - type: text
                  text: "Project:"
                  marks:
                  - type: strong
                - type: text
                  text: " "
                - type: text
                  text: "${{ ctx.project }}"
                  marks:
                  - type: code
            labels:
            - "automated-promotion"
            - "env-${{ ctx.stage }}"
            - "release-${{ imageFrom(vars.imageRepo).Tag }}"
            - "project-${{ ctx.project }}"

>       # Update application, directly updates app for demonstration. Not ideal for practical purposes.

Reviewer 2: 👍 

```suggestion
      # Update the Argo CD Application directly. Not ideal for practical purposes.
```

                - repoURL: public.ecr.aws/nginx/nginx
                  tag: ${{ imageFrom("public.ecr.aws/nginx/nginx").Tag }}

      # Add progress comment
      - as: comment-on-ticket
        uses: jira
        config:
          credentials:
            secretName: jira
          commentOnIssue:
            issueKey: ${{ outputs['create-promotion-ticket'].key }}
            body: "Release ${{ imageFrom(vars.imageRepo).Tag }} has been promoted to ${{ ctx.stage }} environment. Freight: ${{ ctx.targetFreight.name }}. Ready for testing."

      # Cleanup on failure
      - as: on-failure-cleanup-issue
        uses: jira
        if: ${{ failure() }}
        config:
          credentials:
            secretName: jira
          deleteIssue:
            issueKey: ${{ outputs['create-promotion-ticket'].key }}
            deleteSubtasks: true

---
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: Stage
metadata:
  name: uat
  namespace: kargo-proj
spec:
  requestedFreight:
  - origin:
      kind: Warehouse
      name: nginx
    sources:
      stages:
        - test
  promotionTemplate:
    spec:
      vars:
      - name: imageRepo
        value: public.ecr.aws/nginx/nginx
      steps:

>         # Wait for manual approval to proceed to staging

Reviewer 2: Just a straggler:

```suggestion
        # Wait for manual approval to proceed to UAT
```

      - as: wait-approval
        uses: jira
        config:
          credentials:
            secretName: jira
          waitForStatus:
            issueKey: ${{ freightMetadata(ctx.targetFreight.name, 'jira-issue-key') }}

>             expectedStatus: UAT

Reviewer 2: Since I had some concern about re-promotions and generally non-linear workflows... does this effectively make re-promotion to UAT impossible if the Freight has already progressed beyond UAT and may now lave a status such as PROD?

Reviewer 2: If something's made it all the way through to prod and I needed to re-promote it to a lesser environment, like `test` (which had since moved on to newer Freight), I'd hate having to put the status of my issue back to something that no longer reflects that it was cleared for / has made it to prod.

I'm wondering if there's a cleaner way to do this. Issues can only have one status, but they can have many labels...

I wonder if it might be better to demonstrate a pattern of waiting for a particular _label_ to be present. However, I know that would involve adding a new feature to the step, so I think what we're showing here might be the best we can do for now, and I will open an issue in the appropriate repo to track the idea of a feature that waits on the presence (or absence) of a certain label. (Maybe something generic where an expression can be used to examine arbitrary properties of the issue might be even more useful.)

I'm fine with this, as is, given the constraints we're working with. We can revisit in a future release.
